Social media have become a major source of news and information for American citizens (Walker & Matsa, 2021) where journalists monitor public opinion and popular trends (Tandoc Jr & Vos, 2016), and newsrooms try to attract audiences and traffic (Wojcieszak et al., 2021). One important way in which social media have changed journalism lies in the use of engagement metrics: these metrics, such as the number of likes, reactions, shares, collectively signal what audiences demand, and may, in turn dictate news organizations’ priorities in content production (Christin, 2020; Tandoc Jr & Vos, 2016). The incorporation of social media metrics in news production may give citizens more voice in determining news agenda, but this trend might have harmful ramifications for the political processes of democracies. By adopting the logic of virality, news outlets may shift away from covering topics of public importance to publishing more entertaining, attention-grabbing “soft news” to boost engagement metrics, and subsequently revenue (Lamot, 2022). Media outlets may also choose to cover more divisive, toxic, or outrageprovoking hyper-partisan topics to attract audience engagement and appeal to avid partisans, as such content are often associated with social media virality (Brady et al., 2017; Crockett, 2017; Hasell, 2021; Kim et al., 2021; Rathje et al., 2021). Understanding how social media metrics influence content production of newsrooms is therefore crucial for promoting and sustaining a healthy information environment, that is normatively considered to be a prerequisite of a functioning democracy. There is therefore growing scholarly interest in communication research that examines whether and how social media metrics, as well as other forms of audience metrics (such as web traffic) shape news production. Observations of newsrooms frequently show that journalists and editors incorporate audience metrics in their newswork routines to respond  to audience demand (Christin, 2020; Tandoc, 2014; Tandoc & Ferrucci, 2017; Vu, 2014). On the other hand, journalists also express resistance and uncertainty toward the adoption of metrics in news production and frequently cite professional norms to counter this transition (Nelson & Tandoc Jr, 2019; Welbers et al., 2016). Moreover, while some empirical research shows that web traffic-based considerations could shape content production and placement of news (Lamot, 2022; Lee & Tandoc Jr, 2017), there appears to be substantial variation in how different news organizations and practitioners use metrics for different news topics (Christin, 2020; Lamot & Van Aelst, 2020). Given that about 50% of American citizens get their news from social media (Walker & Matsa, 2021), the role that social media metrics play in this process is also relatively understudied. More specifically, what is missing is a comprehensive appraisal that quantifies the extent to which social media metrics shape the topics and issues that news organizations cover, as well as understands which news organizations are most responsive to audience demand, as signaled by these metrics. In this study, we focus on how audience engagement metrics shape news organizations’ content production on Facebook, a platform that two-thirds of U.S. adults report using and one-third report regularly getting news from (Walker & Matsa, 2021). We leverage a dataset of over 2.2 million Facebook posts published by 29 outlets over a 5-year period. This set, which includes all English language outlets from Pew’s 57th wave of the American Trends Panel (Pew,) comprises a relatively comprehensive list of ideologically diverse media that are among the most prominent in the United States. It allows us to conduct a holistic appraisal of the dynamic between engagement metrics and news production, as well as investigate between-outlet heterogeneities.